.TH AUTOLOGIN 1 "April 2026" "shaughvOS" "shaughvOS Commands"
.SH NAME
autologin \- shaughvOS autologin control for the current (sudoing) user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autologin
.RI [ on | off | status ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B autologin
configures
.B both
getty autologin (on tty1) and LightDM autologin (for Xfce sessions)
for the same user. Managing both layers means the user's autologin
preference survives when switching between desktop and console mode
via
.BR desktop (1).
.PP
.B on
and
.B off
require root.
.B status
does not.
.SH TARGET USER RESOLUTION
When
.B autologin on
is invoked, the target user is resolved in this order:
.IP "1." 4
.B $SUDO_USER
— the user who invoked
.BR sudo .
This is the preferred and normal case.
.IP "2." 4
.B AUTO_SETUP_AUTOSTART_LOGIN_USER
read from
.IR /boot/shaughvos.txt .
.IP "3." 4
.B admin
— final fallback.
.PP
A warning is printed when a fallback is used.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B on
Enable autologin for the resolved target user. Writes the getty
drop-in and the LightDM drop-in, then reloads systemd. Requires root.
.TP
.B off
Disable autologin. Removes both drop-in files and reloads systemd.
Password will be required on next login. Requires root.
.TP
.B status
Print TTY and LightDM autologin state, with the configured user for
each. Warns if the two layers are out of sync (e.g. LightDM enabled
but TTY disabled, or the users differ).
.B Does not require root.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/getty@tty1.service.d/shaughvos-autologin.conf
Systemd drop-in that passes
.B \-a <user>
to
.BR agetty (8)
for tty1 autologin.
.TP
.I /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf.d/90-shaughvos-autologin.conf
LightDM configuration fragment setting
.BR autologin-user ,
.BR autologin-session=xfce ,
and
.BR autologin-user-timeout=0 .
.SH RELATIONSHIP WITH desktop(1)
.B desktop on/off
manages the systemd default target
.RB ( graphical.target
vs
.BR multi-user.target )
and LightDM enable/start state. It does
.B not
touch autologin configuration.
.PP
.B autologin on/off
manages the autologin layer independently. The two commands are
deliberately orthogonal so that, for example, an administrator can
leave autologin enabled while switching between GUI and CLI boot
modes without having to reconfigure it each time.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Unknown command, root required but not present, target user could
not be determined, or write error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR desktop (1),
.BR shaughvos (1),
.BR agetty (8),
.BR lightdm (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Emmett Shaughnessy
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Emmett Shaughnessy. Licensed under GPLv2.
