.TH DESKTOP 1 "April 2026" "shaughvOS" "shaughvOS Commands"
.SH NAME
desktop \- toggle between desktop and console mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B desktop
.RI [ on | off | status ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B desktop
is a shaughvOS utility that switches the system between the graphical
desktop environment (Xfce via LightDM) and console mode.
.PP
Changes are persistent — they are applied via
.BR "systemctl set-default"
.RB ( graphical.target
for desktop mode,
.B multi-user.target
for console mode) and survive reboots.
.PP
As of shaughvOS v1.18.0, installed systems default to
.B console mode
on first boot. The live installer ISO continues to boot to the desktop.
.PP
.B desktop
does
.B not
manage autologin. See
.BR autologin (1)
for per-user autologin control.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B on
Switch to desktop mode. Sets the default systemd target to
.BR graphical.target ,
enables
.BR lightdm.service ,
removes any getty autologin drop-ins that would conflict with LightDM,
and starts
.B lightdm
immediately. Requires root.
.TP
.B off
Switch to console mode. Sets the default systemd target to
.BR multi-user.target ,
disables
.BR lightdm.service ,
ensures
.B getty@tty1
is running, switches the active VT to tty1, and stops
.BR lightdm .
Requires root. The VT switch happens
.B before
LightDM is stopped so the user sees a console immediately.
.TP
.B status
Display the configured mode, the persistent systemd default target,
whether LightDM is currently running, and the TTY / LightDM autologin
state.
.B Does not require root.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display usage information.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /boot/shaughvos/.shaughvos-autostart_index
Records the configured autostart index (2 = desktop, 7 = console).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Unknown command or error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR autologin (1),
.BR shaughvos (1),
.BR shaughvos-config (1),
.BR shaughvos-software (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Emmett Shaughnessy
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Emmett Shaughnessy. Licensed under GPLv2.
