.TH SHAUGHVOS 1 "April 2026" "shaughvOS" "shaughvOS Commands"
.SH NAME
shaughvOS \- custom operating system built on Debian
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shaughvOS
is a custom operating system built on a lightweight Debian foundation.
It ships with a curated set of tools and a polished desktop experience.
.SH CUSTOM COMMANDS
.TP
.B desktop on|off|status
Toggle between Xfce desktop and console mode. See
.BR desktop (1).
.TP
.B tr300
QubeTX TR-300 Machine Report. Displays system information including
OS, kernel, network, CPU/memory/disk graphs. Use
.B tr300 \-\-fast
for a sub-second summary.
.TP
.B nd300
QubeTX ND-300 Network Diagnostic. 8 core checks in user mode,
17 deep diagnostics with
.B \-t
(technician mode).
.TP
.B speedqx
QubeTX SpeedQX quad-provider speed test with bufferbloat grading.
.TP
.B sd300
QubeTX SD-300 System Diagnostic. Real-time interactive TUI for
system monitoring with 9 sections.
.TP
.B report
Alias for
.BR tr300 .
.SH BUNDLED SOFTWARE
.TP
.B QubeTX 300 Series
TR-300 (machine report), ND-300 (network diagnostics), SD-300
(system diagnostics), SpeedQX (speed test).
.TP
.B Xfce Desktop
Lightweight desktop environment with Dracula theme, Makira font,
and IBM Plex Mono terminal font.
.SH TARGET HARDWARE
Raspberry Pi 4 (aarch64), x86_64 PCs and laptops, Intel Macs,
virtual machines.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR desktop (1),
.BR tr300 (1),
.BR nd300 (1),
.BR sd300 (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Emmett Shaughnessy
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Emmett Shaughnessy. Licensed under GPLv2.
.PP
shaughvOS is built on the DietPi foundation by Daniel Knight and MichaIng.
